I probably wouldn't have gotten into the Bulgarian National Math team and after
that into MIT if I had followed commands. It happened when I was 7th grade and
my school was selecting a team to compete in a national mathlete competition.
The days the team selection exam was supposed to happen, there was also a
literature exam, part of the standard curriculum, which my mother told me to
attend to. After a brief argument, I said I will, but proceeded to go to the
math team selection instead.

I qualified to one of four spots, out of about twenty students and proceeded to
go to my first math competition in a different city called Varna. During the
competition we did OK, we weren't the best, but overall I really liked traveling
and bonded with the other kids on the team. I was hooked and decided I wanted to
go to more competitions. I did OK, but wasn't making it towards the top.

After a couple of years I got an advice from a member of the national team. He
said "Read 10 math books over the summer vacation, and you might get to the
level of the National Team." I followed his advice, really enjoyed learning hire
about geometry, number theory, combinatorics and inequalities, and as a result
the next year I made it to first the extended national team of 12 people and
then to the national team for the International Math Olympiad - the most
prestigious competition.

I never had any idea about all the benefits and the opportunities I would get
from potentially getting into the national team when I disobeyed my mom's order
to go to the literature exam. I just did it because I was feeling that math is
my strong side and wanted to see if I were any good at it. All I knew at the
time of making the decision was that will have to probably retake the exam, but
might win a trip to Varna, and that I can test my math skills. I didn't know
that I will become more excited about learning math and that I will find other
students who feel the same way and that will push each other to get better. The
opportunity cost of not applying for the math team could have been that I end up
never discovering math's beauty and never making it to the national team and
MIT.

While missing the literature exam, testing my math skills and winning a trip to
Varna were known knowns and know unknowns about my decision, becoming a part of
math community, and potentially qualifying for international math olympiads was
unknown unknown to me at this time. I majorly undervalued the potential upside
of my decision, because I just really had no idea what good might come of it.

Currently, I'm trying to tell myself more that whenever facing a decision that
involves exploring something new, the opportunity cost of not doing it is beyond
my understanding - I rarely have any intuition about what I might discover when
I do the exploration, and while a lot of time it might be nothing, sometimes it
is a gem, and every once in while - a treasure.
