I love traveling to different countries. For once, you never know what you will
discover, and how you will feel when you do. There is a completely new set of
adventures there, and you get to experience completely different environment. It
makes life richer, and provides more inspiration for the remainder of the time.

Hacking on technology projects is similar in the sense of getting to a territory
you have never been before. Maybe somebody else has been there and the area is
well explored and there are plenty of tutorials, and a lot of resources
everywhere. Or maybe nobody else has been there, or at least not in a way that
affects you at all. Either way it is a new form of travel for the mind.

Reality is multi-dimentional and has many different aspects. If it were an
elephant, depending on which side of it you have access to you might deduce that
it is soft and round (hobot), soft and flat (ear) or hard and round (tusk).
These are different projections of the reality based on the position of
perception. Similarly you can perceive reality in different ways when you travel
- once in USA as a resident, once in Italy as a tourist, once in Bulgaria as a
resident, once in Bulgaria as a tourist. You get a better and more interesting
picture of reality the more places and environments you have been in.

With software projects, the more and the more varied software projects you have
done, the more diverse view you have on this new planet of information theory
and processing, technology and tools. And what geologically active planet it is!
There are constantly new volcano technologies emerging, the planet's tectonic
plates move quickly and subsume each other rapidly, there are vast different
ecosystems in which you can choose what kind of animal or plant you want to be,
there are tribes and civilizations. It guarantees a fun trip.
